README.adoc, before:

---
tags: [lattice,spring cloud]
projects: [spring-cloud]
---
:spring_version: current
:toc:
:project_id: gs-lattice-spring-cloud
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: prettify

This guide walks you through the process setting up http://lattice.cf[Lattice] and then deploying a Spring Boot application to it.

== What you'll build

Lattice is a cloud solution small enough to run on your laptop. By giving up features like multi-tenancy, you can build cloud apps rapidly, and later target them for things like Pivotal CF. In this guide, you'll setup Lattice and then deploy a service to it.

== What you'll need

:java_version: 1.7
:java_version: 1.7
include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spring-guides/getting-started-macros/master/prereq_editor_jdk_buildtools.adoc[]

include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spring-guides/getting-started-macros/master/how_to_complete_this_guide.adoc[]



[[initial]]
== Set up Lattice

Lattice is Cloud Foundry with certain features, not critical for a local installation, removed. The following http://lattice.cf/docs/getting-started.html[getting started] steps are all you need to get Lattice going:

. Visit https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads[VirtualBox's download site] and pick the version for your machine. Download and install. Don't worry about actually running it.
. Visit https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html[Vagrant's download site] and pick the version for your machine. Download and install.
. You need http://git-scm.com/[git], the DVCS tool. Options include "brew install git" or visiting the http://git-scm.com/downloads[download page]. After installing, verify you can run "git" from the command line.
. Create a folder to check out Lattice, e.g. `cd ~/src`
. Check out a copy of Lattice by typing `git clone https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/lattice.git`
. `cd lattice`
. `git checkout v0.2.1`
. `vagrant up --provider lattice`
. Go get a coffee. This will take some time as it downloads a Lattice Docker image into your VirtualBox setup.
. When Lattice finishes this step, it should print out a target address like this: *192.168.11.11.xip.io*. Note it for later usage.


NOTE: Vagrant also has support for other VMs like VMware Fusion. It requires not only a commercial copy of VMware Fusion, but a copy of the http://www.vagrantup.com/vmware[Vagrant/VMware Fusion plugin] as well.

== Set up Lattice CLI

With Lattice installed and running, you now need a copy of the Lattice CLI (ltc).

Using Mac Homebrew? Try this:

. `wget https://lattice.s3.amazonaws.com/releases/v0.2.1/darwin-amd64/ltc -O /usr/local/bin/ltc`
. ` chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/ltc`

If not, try this instead:

. `mkdir -p $HOME/bin`
. `wget https://lattice.s3.amazonaws.com/releases/v0.2.1/darwin-amd64/ltc -O $HOME/bin/ltc`
. `chmod 755 $HOME/bin/ltc`
. Add `$HOME/bin` to your *PATH* inside your .bash_profile (or similar PATh configuration file).

Verify *ltc* is setup with this:

----
$ ltc --version
----

== Install demo web app in Lattice

With everything setup, the Lattice team has a sample app ready to deploy into your own cloud.

. Point ltc at your Lattice setup by typing: `ltc target <lattice address>`
. Install the demo web app by typing: `ltc create lattice-app cloudfoundry/lattice-app`
* Scale the web app up to three instances by typing: `ltc scale 3`

NOTE: *lattice-app* can be anything you wish. *cloudfoundry/lattice-app* is the name of the sample web app published to a Docker registry.

You should see something like this:

----
Starting App: lattice-app...
lattice-app is now running.
http://lattice-app.192.168.11.11.xip.io
----

Bonus commands to tinker with:

* Tail the logs by typing `ltc logs lattice-app`
* See all apps deployed on your Lattice by typing `ltc list`
* See status by typing `ltc status lattice-app`
* Visualize containers by typing `ltc visualize`
* Crash the app and see it recover automatically by typing `lattice-app.192.168.11.11.xip.io/exit` into your browser's address bar.

== Set up a Spring Cloud app

With Lattice set up and a sample web app installed, now you can install a Spring Cloud module that interacts with Lattice.

. Go back to the folder where you cloned lattice (like `cd ~/src`).
. Clone Spring Cloud Lattice by typing `git clone git@github.com:spring-cloud/spring-cloud-lattice.git`
. `cd spring-cloud-lattice`
. `mvn --settings .settings.xml package`
. `java -jar spring-cloud-lattice-sample/target/spring-cloud-lattice-sample-1.0.0.BUILD-SNAPSHOT.jar`
. Visit localhost:8080 and verify you can see the demo web app. Refresh the browser multiple times to see it rotate.

NOTE: Visit link:/gs/maven/ for more background regarding Apache Maven.


== Summary

Congratulations! You've just setup a cloud on your laptop and run a Spring Boot app on it!

Commit message:

Get all the steps working

README.adoc, after:

---
tags: [lattice,spring cloud]
projects: [spring-cloud]
---
:spring_version: current
:toc:
:project_id: gs-lattice-spring-cloud
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: prettify

This guide walks you through the process setting up http://lattice.cf[Lattice] and then deploying a Spring Boot application to it.

== What you'll build

Lattice is a cloud solution small enough to run on your laptop. By giving up features like multi-tenancy, you can build cloud apps rapidly, and later target them for things like Pivotal CF. In this guide, you'll setup Lattice and then deploy a service to it.

== What you'll need

:java_version: 1.7
:java_version: 1.7
include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spring-guides/getting-started-macros/master/prereq_editor_jdk_buildtools.adoc[]

include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spring-guides/getting-started-macros/master/how_to_complete_this_guide.adoc[]



[[initial]]
== Set up Lattice

Lattice is Cloud Foundry with certain features, not critical for a local installation, removed. The following http://lattice.cf/docs/getting-started.html[getting started] steps are all you need to get Lattice going:

. Visit https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads[VirtualBox's download site] and pick the version for your machine. Download and install. Don't worry about actually running it.
. Visit https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html[Vagrant's download site] and pick the version for your machine. Download and install.
. You need http://git-scm.com/[git], the DVCS tool. Options include "brew install git" or visiting the http://git-scm.com/downloads[download page]. After installing, verify you can run "git" from the command line.
. Create a folder to check out Lattice, e.g. `cd ~/src`
. Check out a copy of Lattice by typing `git clone https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/lattice.git`
. `cd lattice`
. `git checkout v0.2.1`
. `vagrant up --provider lattice`
. Go get a coffee. This will take some time as it downloads a Lattice Docker image into your VirtualBox setup.
. When Lattice finishes this step, it should print out a target address like this: *192.168.11.11.xip.io*. Note it for later usage.


NOTE: Vagrant also has support for other VMs like VMware Fusion. It requires not only a commercial copy of VMware Fusion, but a copy of the http://www.vagrantup.com/vmware[Vagrant/VMware Fusion plugin] as well.

== Set up Lattice CLI

With Lattice installed and running, you now need a copy of the Lattice CLI (ltc).

Using Mac Homebrew? Try this:

. `wget https://lattice.s3.amazonaws.com/releases/v0.2.1/darwin-amd64/ltc -O /usr/local/bin/ltc`
. ` chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/ltc`

If not, try this instead:

. `mkdir -p $HOME/bin`
. `wget https://lattice.s3.amazonaws.com/releases/v0.2.1/darwin-amd64/ltc -O $HOME/bin/ltc`
. `chmod 755 $HOME/bin/ltc`
. Add `$HOME/bin` to your *PATH* inside your .bash_profile (or similar PATh configuration file).

Verify *ltc* is setup with this:

----
$ ltc --version
----

== Install demo web app in Lattice

With everything setup, the Lattice team has a sample app ready to deploy into your own cloud.

. Point ltc at your Lattice setup by typing: `ltc target <lattice address>`
. Install the demo web app by typing: `ltc create lattice-app cloudfoundry/lattice-app`
* Scale the web app up to three instances by typing: `ltc scale 3`

NOTE: *lattice-app* can be anything you wish. *cloudfoundry/lattice-app* is the name of the sample web app published to a Docker registry.

You should see something like this:

----
Starting App: lattice-app...
lattice-app is now running.
http://lattice-app.192.168.11.11.xip.io
----

Bonus commands to tinker with:

* Tail the logs by typing `ltc logs lattice-app`
* See all apps deployed on your Lattice by typing `ltc list`
* See status by typing `ltc status lattice-app`
* Visualize containers by typing `ltc visualize`
* Crash the app and see it recover automatically by typing `lattice-app.192.168.11.11.xip.io/exit` into your browser's address bar.

== Set up a Spring Cloud app

With Lattice set up and a sample web app installed, now you can install a Spring Cloud module that interacts with Lattice.

=== Temporary Pre-setup

Until the Recepter Client library is deployed, these extra steps are necessary ot pre-build this demo

. Go to your root source folder (like `cd ~/src`)
. `git clone git@github.com:spencergibb/receptor-client.git`
. `cd receptor-client`
. `git checkout idea-java6`
. `./gradlew clean build install -x test`

With this in place, proceed to the main steps:

. Go back to the folder where you cloned lattice (like `cd ~/src`).
. Clone Spring Cloud Lattice by typing `git clone git@github.com:spring-cloud/spring-cloud-lattice.git`
. `cd spring-cloud-lattice`
. `mvn --settings .settings.xml package`
. `java -jar spring-cloud-lattice-sample/target/spring-cloud-lattice-sample-1.0.0.BUILD-SNAPSHOT.jar`
. Visit http://localhost:8080/?service=lattice-app and verify you can see the demo web app. Refresh the browser multiple times to see the *uri* attribute rotate.

NOTE: Visit link:/gs/maven/ for more background regarding Apache Maven.


== Summary

Congratulations! You've just setup a cloud on your laptop and run a Spring Boot app on it!
